the most compelling warnings to the west
about radical Islam those would come
from someone who grew up in the world of
Islam today uncommon knowledge
ayaan Hirsi Ali uncommon knowledge now
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson ayaan Hirsi Ali was born in
Somalia in 1969 in 1992 she fled an
arranged marriage escaping to the
Netherlands from 2003 to 2006 she served
in the Dutch parliament warning about
the incompatibility of radical Islam
with the Western Way of life in 2004 she
received international attention when
the filmmaker Theo van Gogh her friend
and collaborator was murdered
van Gogh had directed submission a short
film that mizelli
wrote about the oppression of women
under Islam the murderer a radical
Muslim used a knife to pin a death
threat formas Ali to mr. van gogh's body
in 2006 the Dutch Minister for
immigration attempted to revoke miss
Ollie's citizenship the courts
ultimately upheld mizelli citizenship
but she resigned from the Dutch
parliament and moved here to the United
States miss Ali is the author of a
number of books including the 2007 vol
infidel the 2015 work heretic why Islam
needs a reformation and published this
year the challenge of Dawa political
Islam is ideology and movement and how
to counter it
as Ellie is a fellow at the Hoover
Institution at Stanford ayaan Hirsi Ali
welcome Thank You CJ thank you for
having my pleasure the nature of the
problem ayaan Hirsi Ali testifying
before Congress this past spring quote
two successive administration's you're
talking about those of George W Bush and
Barack Obama two successive
administrations have approached the
problem of political Islam with a
completely flawed strategy the illusion
that a line could somehow be drawn
between Islam
as opposed religion of peace adhered to
by a moderate majority and violent
extremism engaged in by a tiny minority
are you were you telling Congress that
Islam isn't a religion of peace I was
telling Congress that Islam is part
religion and part a political philosophy
and that if you focus only on the
religious part praying fasting you know
nothing but peace I don't see anything
but peace if people want to pray and
fast and be together peacefully Reena
have their rituals I don't
I think that's protected and I don't
think that that necessarily leads to any
kind of violence you may object to it if
you're not religious but it is religion
as we understand it as the founding
fathers as the framers of the
institution might have understood it yes
but then there is Islam which is really
the major part of Islam which is a
political philosophy it's a prescription
for how society ought to be built how's
society ought to be furnished governed
and that philosophy is a not compatible
with our American constitutional liberal
democracy or any other secular type of
government and that's what we need to be
discussing it's a set of ideas a set of
principles and values and there are
people who are committed to not only
practicing it but also to promoting it
and some of them are so committed to it
it's not enough for them to establish it
within their own societies they want it
to rule the whole world
so here crude question but it's going to
be on everybody's mind and that question
is how big is the problem 1.6 billion
Muslims in the world that's a little
over a fifth of the population of the
entire planet that's right and are you
saying to us we have a problem with 1.6
billion or are you saying we're simply
drawing the line in the wrong place that
somehow or other if you look at some
you're looking only for some
tiny sliver of the population that is
radical terrorists and so forth you're
missing something we're drawing the line
in the wrong place or are you saying the
religion and the prescription for how to
organize human society are so tightly
intertwined that the problem is indeed
with Islam itself I think the
distinction I want us to make first and
foremost is the distinction between the
doctrine Islamic doctrine Islamic
political doctrine and the human beings
be adherent so let's say we agree on
just what the basic facts are and the
Prophet Muhammad founded a religion that
then he later ten years into the
religion he developed into a political
doctrine and that evolved over time they
were conquered Islam was an empire and
it said the doctrine that governed that
Empire on the one hand on the other hand
there are the human beings they are the
1.5 or 1.6 billion people out there and
one Muslim varies from another there is
a great deal of diversity there's
diversity of geography diversity of
language of gender of income of age
there is a great deal of diversity among
Muslims the most important one to us is
there are some Muslims who when they
look at when you look at Islam they just
choose what is religious about it again
the praying the fasting in the community
or the communal fuels and you're saying
it and then there are Muslims who say no
that's not enough it's not enough to be
Muslim in the later sense only you have
to accept and abide and practice and
promote Islam also in its political
sense and it's for that group I don't
know how big they are but in terms of
growing lines I think that's where we
need to start I see all right so let me
yo you right in the challenge of Dawa
your testimony before Congress your book
heretic calling for a reformation of
Islam you're of course aware of the
whole history of Islam but you mostly
you're talking about the present moment
and what
the West the United States in particular
needs to do however let me ask you to
address the history for a moment and the
argument with of which you're well aware
runs simply as follows
takes a moment to set this up it's
important question Islam emerges in the
Arabian Peninsula in the seventh century
and within a century is swept across
North Africa which had been
substantially Christian in other words
there is a conquest that takes place and
by the middle of the eighth century
there is far north as central France you
have the Battle of Tor and for seven
centuries Islam holds most of what we
call Spain today and then in the 16th
century they conquer Constantinople and
a couple of decades later the world of
Islam is prevented from dominating the
Mediterranean only because the wind
happens to favor the Venetian fleet at
the Battle of Lepanto and then we have
as recently as 1683
Muslim armies lay siege to Vienna that's
the one that is so striking to be 1683
is twenty years after a little more than
20 years after the Pilgrims landed at
Plymouth Rock
yeah and Islam is still attempting to
invade Central Europe yeah okay so the
argument would run and don't forget
India don't forget this part of Asia
don't forget Africa okay all right
you're not you not only grant the
argument or you're you're you're you're
heightening its Ottis yes and the
argument would run thank you very much
for attempting to reassure us but truly
we need to be wide awake this really is
a clash of civilizations and there is
something within Islam which demet has
demonstrated for all 14th centuries and
animus and aggressiveness toward the
West
the problem is Islam itself how do you
deal with that argument I think again
you have to go to the political
blueprint if you take the American
Founding Fathers it's about two hundred
and something years old it's it's a
really really young fellow I think you
yes incursion is on its young yes yeah
even if you take classical liberalism
it's these are relatively young ideas
and then even younger you get to
communism and all the
so if you think of Islam as a political
philosophy it's really one of the oldest
ideas one of the oldest governing
principles it's not Western it is not as
organizing it doesn't make logical sense
to the Western mind the Western mind of
today I think back then if you read some
of the works of you know Gibbons and
beyond that they seem to have understood
what they were dealing with background
but today it seems to me that there are
very few people in the West who really
think that they understand the madness
of Islam that's why we need qualifiers
like radical and extreme and
fundamentalist you know these are all
words this is a vocabulary that we use
for Christianity and for Western
phenomena that we then try to put on on
a different civilizations I think first
we have to acknowledge yes this is this
is an old political philosophy it's been
around for a long time and we don't
understand it part of it is also we
don't want to understand it mmm
why don't we want to understand it I
don't know the answer to that question
but again let me circulate if you get
deep into the values and the principles
that are promoted from within the
political Islamic doctrine and you put
them next to our you know worse new
political ideas yes you get to a place
of zero-sum games either it's that or
it's that they're incompatible it
becomes no society can be both yeah no
society can be both and the contemporary
Western mind is thought to collaborate
to cooperate to compromise clause and
pluralism tolerance all to me fantastic
ideas and a fantastic attitude toward
the world but sometimes you get to a
place where it is impossible to
compromise and I think deep
the contemporary Western mind just isn't
it's not that we don't get it it's that
when you get it then what right right we
don't want all right that's you made
about three points that I want to follow
anything you quote here in the challenge
of Dawa and then you mentioned it again
in your testimony before Congress you
quote Karl Popper Karl Popper is middle
20th century philosopher the man a great
defender of the of what he termed the
open society there's popper Hayek a
number of others and poppers is
tremendously important intellectual
figure for defending the West as it had
evolved by the middle of the last
century and Karl Popper says believes
intolerance up to a point yes let me
quote him this is a passage that you
footnoted so I looked up the passage
he's writing in 1945 and clearly he has
in mind fascism and communism but here's
what popper right as long as we
Westerners as long as we can counter
intolerant philosophies by rational
argument and keeps them in check by
public opinion suppression would
certainly be unwise but we should claim
the right to suppress them if necessary
even by force
we should claim that any movement
preaching intolerance places itself
outside the law and we should consider
incitement to intolerance and
persecution as criminal in the same way
as we should consider in citement to
murder or kidnapping or to the revival
of the slave trade as criminal close
quote so here you have this paradox that
in order to sustain a tolerant society
you need to draw very sharp lines around
it and say this inside yeah as much
tolerance as we can manage but there are
lines and outside we claim the right to
suppress yes the intolerant now that is
extremely strong language yeah and there
were people even at the time who thought
that was a little going a little far
toward communism for example do you want
to amend this language in any way as a
statement of principle for the way we
ought to deal with Islam because the
yes of religious belief and political
theory it's so closely intertwined with
a fundamental outlook on man's relation
to God you want to mint you want to
soften it when you want to let popper
stand as a gut as a kind of guiding
principle for us I would like to let
popper stand and again I'm glad you
mentioned 1947 1945 1947 the reason
we're just coming out of the Second
World War
yes in the West we have just been
confronted with an ideology that was
impossible to compromise me yes and if
you remember the early days you know the
conversations between Chamberlain and
Churchill chandling thought that he
could talk some sense into Hitler he
thought he could negotiate he thought
peace in our time
he's in our time destroyed appeasement
would work so that was the softening of
the language that was the softening of
the attitude to it you see this evil you
you really think it just can't be - this
man must want something other than just
go down a path that could possibly
destroy all of us this is part of the
pattern that I that I take it as you
identify yeah even as in those days
confronting Hitler Chamberlain the
people who were the appeasement crowd
they thought oh yes yes he talks that
way but he doesn't really believe it
likewise during the Cold War much of the
left said oh no no no that that the
communist stuff that's just rhetoric
yeah actually they're just a great power
they want their own sphere of influence
they want a little economic growth yeah
they don't really believe it yeah and
you argue that we're making much the
same mistake that the radical Islamist
those who are those who proposed the
political Islam yeah don't mister they
really believe it they really believe it
and here they demonstrated they teach
their children they sacrifice the lives
of their children what is more valuable
to one than their own children
so they sacrifice the lives and the
futures of their own children they
sacrifice their own careers there are
men I mean the big famous example is bin
Laden but he's not the only one who are
born into privilege financial privilege
in that context clan and tribal
provisioning the families are well
respected and honored their princes and
they set all that aside they go to some
hellhole in Afghanistan and they start
promoting these ideas with absolutely
everything that they have everything in
them I can't think of a better
illustration a better demonstration of
conviction than that kind of conviction
and it trickles down it wriggles down to
the man who takes a van after he's
thought all things through to run people
over knowing he's going to kill these
people but that he runs the risk of
being shot by the police that is a clear
demonstration of conviction so if you
want I mean take some of the I don't
know if you follow some what goes on in
the Palestinian territory but some of
these people who kill and die while
killing others those who who die as
they're considered to be matters you
have streets and squares named after
them they are seen within the community
of radical Muslims as heroes celebrated
they are celebrated more than we
celebrate the founding fathers more than
we celebrate any of our Western heroes
and what other demonstration do you want
of conviction that we can go on and say
they're mad and you know they're
deprived they're this there that
deprivation plays a hole but it is not
the cause and sometimes I would say I
think to me in to you probably it's
madness to take your life it's madness a
gala people's lives but it's something
weirdly appealing about it conviction
the force of conviction well this is my
speculation you know the answer to this
my speculation there why do we see a
radicalization of Muslims in the suburbs
of Paris
here's the question why is it that young
men overwhelmingly men yeah in the last
year or two years left countries in the
West including a few from this country
but many from France many from Germany
some from Britain to go fight with Isis
who were clearly leading these are not
people who were showering they were at
fist they were dangerous they were live
but it's something about the purity of
conviction that jiff does exercise an
appeal we are built to respond to
beliefs to be a safe or something higher
than yourself and Karl Popper describes
in the open society and its enemies he
describes that you know in his criticism
of Papa and his criticism of Hagel he
describes how is transcendence or you
know human being subjected to being an
instrument in this a higher goal Islam
does that but even better because it's
to God it's religious you see Plato's
argument tables arguments were all
secular they were man-made those who
were convinced to go on that path had to
they had to be they had to be persuaded
but here it's the ultimate power it's
God here the challenge of Dawa yeah and
I to the size proper for for jumping for
skipping Muhammad he goes from Plato to
Hegel and in between he forgets Mohammed
I think to a certain degree my criticism
is it so you know love you say some of
these thinkers they're on everything
about it is centered in the West yes
so this is here's a critique of you know
having ignored what's going on in other
civilizations in this case in genomics
applies aside what's the challenge of
Dawa jihad is a word that we have we
Americans haven't gotten to know since
9/11 holy war we're familiar with the
term but you're arguing there's another
term with which we really must become
familiar this is mandatory not optional
yeah and you've written this book about
of the challenge of Dawa which I'm sure
I'm mispronouncing would you just
first of all pronounce it correctly and
then tell us what it means Dawa is the
way it's pronounced and what it means is
to plead or to call non-muslims to Islam
this is in emulation of the founder of
Islam Muhammad who is considered to be a
prophet in the first ten years in Mecca
that's what he did he called unbelievers
people who didn't believe him who
believed in several gods
to abandon their gods abandon their
religions and come to his and then in
the ten years in Medina that followed
the call the invitation the persuasion
the use of language slowly transformed
maybe not so slowly transformed into the
use of force so dour all the steps that
precede jihad in fact you should and
could see jihad as an extension of Dawa
so when a non-muslim is invited to come
to Islam and in it refuses then force is
justified but what the Dow Dow component
does is it it puts the Muslim believer
who's engaged in it to try several
different tools
one of the first requirements of dower
is to learn as much as you can about the
individuals and the community that you
are trying to convert their strengths
and their weaknesses their beliefs
whatever it is that animates them and
then tailor the message to that so it's
not just an idea it's not just
persuading people to come to doubt but
you have to come to Islam but it's more
than that it is the strategy of
marketing it is the financials
it is utilization rather than taking
over of those institutions
all of that is thou but thou is more
than that it's also directed at the
Muslim was not so observant and people
who identify as Muslims but who
completely neglect the political aspects
of Islam
it's also directed at them that's really
where it begins because once you
establish that Vanguard then you can use
them as daddies and a dying is one that
is the individual bow is the concept and
you explain to Congress and again in
this book that we're making a terrible
mistake
by looking at acts of violence in the
Middle East and overlooking Dawa as it
is taking place here in the United
States itself
let me quote your testimony Dawa is to
the Islamists of today what the long
march through the institution's was to
20th century Marxists yes explain that
the establishment of mosques of Islamic
centers that are paid for by governments
like Saudi Arabia and Qatar to promote
assist a belief system that is hostile
and that is designed to replace the
existing our American system that is
that much it is gradual it is a much
through the systems through government
through the media through education
through the family and I'm not making
this thing known what I have done is and
I've taken and I really wanted to share
this with your viewers because we live
in the information age you can access
all this information you can get this
dowel or manuals and just read for
yourself how they set out their
strategies getting to cut campuses
establish Muslim student associations
the Muslim student associations are then
- they are given tools and tactics and
to Islam eyes that particular
institution and we say the same for
government same for media and it's
working it's working because right now
you cannot discuss political Islam it's
being made a taboo a time this llama
phobia has invented that makes you
especially I'm talking about a white man
it it uses your own vulnerabilities
against you because the minute you
started to question their goals their
objectives you're not having a
conversation about
those particular facts we're going to
have a conversation about your bigotry
right because we live in a society now
that you know values I I don't know what
to say but it claims that we there can
be no bigotry well I mean there's a
constitutional claim of freedom of
religion
let me quote you your testimony before
Congress yet again the biggest challenge
the United States faces in combating
political Islam is it and you do then do
not say is Isis or terrorists no the
biggest challenge is the extent to which
agents of Dawa can exploit the
constitutional and legal protections
that guarantee American citizens freedom
of religion and freedom of speech
freedoms that would of course be swept
away
if the Islamists achieved their goals
that type well that sounds like a nearly
fatal vulnerability frankly it sounds
fatal I'm hoping you'll tell me has only
nearly failed yes it's merely faking if
we go back to the proper principle where
our society then says enough is enough
and up to here and not far that we're
going to astir you know we're going to
enforce the rule of law we're not going
to I don't know I think one of America's
great judges said well the Constitution
is not a suicide pact obviously perfect
exactly it's not a suicide pact
and so the Constitution is not these
freedoms are not suicidal pacts suicide
pact and and I think that's where we are
at now that maybe there are people
inside America who feel that there's
nothing to do about it we have these
freedoms and we're just going to be
lethargic and if if what I'm saying is
true then let it just unfold let it all
take place of course I disagree with
that with as much force as is in me and
I'm hoping to get Americans to agree
that we we can agree on trying to fight
this particular ideology the way we
fought
previous ideologies with the same
outcomes and in the challenge of Dawa
and also in your testimony to Congress
you present about a dozen and a half
specific policy proposal starting points
yeah not as if you drafted legislation
but this is these are kind of things we
should be thinking about let me take a
couple of these I'm quoting again from
this book as a condition of us
friendship the administration should
require foreign governments to stop
supporting and financing subversive is
limit is Lama stack tivities in the
United States close quote
first of all how big is that problem I
think it's very big and a millions a
year that big of what we can see of what
we know some of these finances you know
the Treasury we know better than I do
but some of what we see is I mean in a
trillion dollar economy you might think
it's just a drop in the ocean but I
think it's a lot of money
alright so Donald Trump visited the
Middle East yeah
as we take this program this is less
than a month ago
I've less than six weeks ago and in
Saudi Arabia itself where he had not
only the Saudi royal family but leaders
from 50 Muslim countries joined Trump
and the Saudi royal family for this
event and he told them to face down
terrorists he said in effect knock it
off you've got to use this new moment
here we have to join together to defeat
radical Islam was he a sucker do you
think there's a chance this might that
Saudi Arabia which has been funding
Wahhabism the other countries in the
Gulf that have been funding the
expansion of this radical view of Islam
vote will they knock it off is there a
new moment here or was he just being a
chump like other American presidents I
think what I can't speak for him
obviously but let me let me make an
attempt at analysis and my first kind of
analysis would be he got a lot of heat
for saying we're not going to let
Muslims into the United
until we figured out who's who and what
problem is and I think this is Donald
Trump moderating his stance and saying
well we've got to start somewhere and
then made these statements and started
with this speech where he accommodates a
lot of their language because if I were
him I would actually use the word bow
instead of the word terrorism I see yes
it is political violence it gets to
violence now what we are really sorry
making the mistakes that you pointed out
you don't focus on the violence focus on
the underlying ideas yeah and the
activities of propagation yeah but if he
stood there talking to the king of Saudi
Arabia then and this is a crucible of
dower and that would be a completely
different conversation and I don't think
from a diplomatic perspective that
that's the kind of conversation you want
to have in public I think behind closed
doors it would make a great deal of
sense to use you know the Tontine
language of explicitness and say this is
what we're we're respected to the dow
it's the ideas and the ideology and the
principles of sharia of jihad commanding
heights and forbidding wrong you have to
get fluent in that himself first but
that's the kind of conversation we need
to hear you have we have a wonderfully
well read yeah sophisticated
beautifully well-spoken what you are is
a public intellectual and you sound to
me as though you think Donald Trump is
at least making a few good first steps
well I think he's me maybe the only a
public intellectual in America is
willing to stand up for Donald Trump
well I'm there are more well it is I'm
not standing up for Donald Trump I'm
trying to be I feel a little
uncomfortable and see what you do with
it yeah I'm standing up for the
principles of the United States of
America he is our elected president and
I want him to succeed and especially
when it comes to this issue I want him
to succeed just the way I want and would
have wanted Hillary Clinton to succeed
if she became president or Mickey Mouse
as far as I'm concerned to me it is
about our leader
the man who has taken or the woman who's
taken oath to protect our country and
our Constitution to stand up to a force
that is hostile and to make it as
explicit as possible what it is that we
are hiding now in his Youngstown speech
in Ohio he did that which was during the
campaign during the campaign yeah he did
put we call it radical Islamic extremism
and he put it on par I call it an
ideology put it on par with fascism and
communism and National Socialism that's
where it belongs
now should he he had said that in his
speech in Saudi Arabia I think it would
be here in the United States that people
would go up in you know they're already
really anti Trump it would be even more
untied which is a pity but whether we
say it in public or not whether it's
President Trump or some other president
that's the conversation we need to be
having well so you have just a moment
then on American politics
you've got Donald Trump imperfectly
maybe even stumblingly and bumbling Lee
but he's making he's taking steps in the
right direction correct that would your
assessment right but he has only yes the
support the polls seem to peaked at 40
percent or so so that's 60 percent who
are against him and some very immensely
so as you just noted and well tell me
what happened when you were questioned
by Democrats in this during this
testimony before Congress that I quoted
a few times there was I think three or
four women senators all Democrats yeah
who were in that hearing just described
the scene leading us I was invited by
them it's a Republican senator horn
Johnson and Claire McCaskill who is the
ranking member I have a letter she's a
Democrat Democrat said please come and
speak to us about the ideology of
radical Islam and I went there and I
didn't get any questions from the
Democrats and neither did the woman who
is caught testifying with me as her
nominee who is in fact a practicing
Muslim and because they would not have
wanted your answers they would not have
wanted to hear your answers you
speculate I speculate yeah my
circulation is they
would not want to hear my answers
because it puts them in a comfortable in
an uncomfortable place is there any
Democrat so what I'm poking around here
for is Donald Trump is taking the right
first steps he's an extremely unpopular
president yeah who on who among the
Democrats is there anyone on the Left
who's getting it right where do you see
of just asking a political question how
do you begin to move this huge nation of
ours in the right direction without a
few figures among the Democrats are on
the left I know several Democrats who
are in politics in think tanks just in
business normal people in Silicon Valley
lots of Democrats who get the problem
and who really understand what we are
dealing with but it is not the official
DNC yes Democratic National Congress
talking points and it is not the Nancy
Pelosi or Chuck Schumer talking points
it's unfortunate that we now have a
democracy where opposition you know
healthy opposition has become
obstruction and resistance and that kind
of language is used but in it's not I
have to say it's not only with this
issue if you look at all the other
issues there's this waiting for Donald
Trump to be impeached or to go away
somehow and then we will start having
sensible conversations but that is not
how the world works
you can't just force postpone these
enormous problems until you get someone
you want right yeah last couple of
questions once again your testimony
before Congress we need to develop a
strategy to counter not only the
jihadist but the complex ideological
infrastructure known as Dawa yeah just
as we countered both the Red Army and
the ideology of communism in the Cold
War yeah close quote Soviet Communism
lasted seven decades yes Islam has been
with us for fourteen centuries
yeah are you optimistic I am optimistic
because we have defeated in the past
these ideologies you mentioned
the communism and National Socialism
that were in some ways more determined
modern fighting with modern tools and
Islam has been around for a very long
time but the jihad is the political
Islam of our day buys weapons from us
takes innovation from us it needs us to
destroy us and so in some ways I think
we should be more optimistic because a
we've done it before they can't destroy
us without our permission
they can't destroy us without our
permission they can't destroy us without
us letting them destroy us and even if
you just put the two ideas side by side
one thing I was talking to Andy McCarthy
the former prosecutor yes and he was
from you know as a prosecutor he's
really tried to fight this fight within
the justice system and he's come to the
conclusion you know the biggest part of
this battle should be won in the
cultural arena the battle field of ideas
and if you take it there I think that we
can easily win if only we would stand up
for our own ideas if you're promoting
Sharia and you make it explicit you're
selling Sharia to someone like me I left
Islam so for those who live Islam is the
death penalty I'm a woman you want to
sell Sharia to me it puts me in a
position of chattel you're trying to
sell Sharia to a Jewish person or a
Christian we've been relegated to the
status of women's or second-class
third-class right now and then you show
people the places on this planet today
in 2017 where Sharia is reality and you
see a lot of pain and suffering
discrimination divisive Ness poverty so
it's not a difficult idea a difficult
philosophy to defeat it's just that
we're not interested for some reason
we're not yet we don't get it here but
once we get there all of our ideas I
mean and I know most people here today
feel a sense of
shame when they talk about Western
civilization with the ideas and
principles of Western civilization with
all their weaknesses with all their
pathologies first period anything that
Sharia has to offer
we shouldn't be embarrassed about saying
that should be where we begin the
conversation last question this time I'm
going to quote President Trump
this is Donald Trump speaking this month
in Warsaw quote the fundamental question
of our time is whether the West has the
will to survive
yeah do we have the confidence in our
values to defend them at any cost
do we have enough respect for our
citizens and to protect our borders do
we have the desire and the courage to
preserve our civilization in the face of
those who would subvert and destroy it
close quote
does the West have the will to survive
is that the fundamental question that's
a fundamental question yes that is the
fundamental question he said these words
in Parliament and they were well
received and what I have noticed I'm you
know I came to the West in 1992 so I'm a
newcomer but you're doing fine thank you
in this short period what I notice is
those to whom freedom came late they are
the ones who are willing to fight it all
serving suffered horrible dirty
Hungarians Eastern Europeans you know
for them it is not some vague story in
history it's they still know what it was
like to be under the Soviet Union to be
behind that iron curtain to have no
freedom we know what a totalitarian
ideologies they recognize it and they're
willing to fight for the core principles
of freedom and that's what Western
civilization has has granted in to a
certain degree to human beings and has
promoted and has established systems
that protect that individual thing they
know that the Northern Europeans
to some degree Americans who have been
free for so long but they don't know
what freedom is anymore they are the
ones who are
I think moral moral twist about and
bringing their hands and thinking you
know how can we defend Western
civilization mean what is Western
civilization is it white supremacism or
is it something else
and if our our leaders if our elite
cannot tell the difference between white
nationalism and Western civilization or
what it is that makes America great
again then I think we're in big trouble
we'll have to depend on those Eastern
Europeans so that's the but this really
is the last question I'm saying last but
this one really is the last question
yeah if the question is whether the West
has the courage to defend itself has the
will to defend itself and you just
identified the central sub question
within that question and that is will
the United States of America
stop wringing its hand yes what do you
think I hate to say it but something has
to happen to make us focus into stop
wringing our hands
you know just turn on the news and the
first thing you hear is about North
Korea testing missiles that could hit us
then there's the whole radical Islamic
phenomenon there's the size of China
which is again in its expression
anti-western and looking at all of that
I think it is I don't know I feel a
sense of urgency I hope that you feel a
sense of urgency that we have something
to defend but unfortunately something
and this is this is not my analysis this
is what I hear from other people is
Americans first try all the bad options
and they try all them before and then
the very last one will be now if that's
the case I hope we have time this time
ayaan Hirsi Ali author most recently of
the challenge of Dawa and mother you're
expecting your second child
thank you very much thank you very much
thank you see to flag for the Hoover
Institution and uncommon knowledge I'm
Peter Robinson
[Music]